For our project, an SCU Marketplace, we will develop a web application to ensure accessibility
and ease of use across various devices. Our group chose a web platform because it allows both
students and faculty to access the marketplace from any web browser without needing to
download a separate application. In addition, web applications provide an efficient method for
both development and deployment compared to a native mobile application or any desktop
application, which also aligns well with our team’s current skill set.
We aim to build the frontend of our Marketplace project using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,
while leveraging the React framework. Our group selected React for its modularity, helping us
manage clean code that can be reused. In addition, our application will include dynamic content
such as user interactions, filtering, and listings, which makes React a viable choice to build an
interactive user interface efficiently. Both Thai and Kelvin have strong experience and frontend,
and are learning React, making them well-suited to lead the development and implementation in
these areas. Hayoung will contribute to both front-end design and development as well by
collaborating with Thai to create a Figma mockup that will serve as a visual reference and
design for the overall team.
While Thai and Kelvin are both comfortable with JavaScript, Kelvin plans to deepen his skills in
React through The Odin Project, an open-source platform that provides structured lessons on
web development. By doing so, he can contribute to all implementations where React is
necessary.
As for the back-end development, our team has chosen PostgreSQL as the database for our
Marketplace project. PostgreSQL is both a powerful and reliable relational database that offers
strong scalability, allows for complex queries, is SQL and ACID compliant, and provides
excellent integration with potential future cloud services, such as Google Cloud or AWS. Our
team has decided to start development locally for our Marketplace project without cloud hosting
to minimize costs. Through this approach, we will build and test core features that are crucial
before scaling to cloud environments in the future.
Trisha, who has experience with databases, will lead the back-end development, specifically
regarding Postgres. She will be working with Alyce, who also has an understanding of database
management. Together, Alyce and Trisha will focus on designing data models, ensuring proper
data relationships, as well as developing the backend logic for various components such as
transactions, listings for products, and user authentication. Alyce will also serve as a full-stack
developer, bridging both the front-end and back-end to ensure consistent data flow and
integration between the UI and database.
Furthermore, Hayoung will serve as a secondary full-stack developer, helping on both the
front-end and back-end aspects of the Marketplace project. This kind of cross-collaboration will
ensure that every part of our project has at least two people contributing, which allows for
flexibility and shared knowledge across the team.
Ultimately, our choices for technologies reflect a connection between leveraging the team's
existing strengths as well as facilitating skill growth. Both React and PostgreSQL offer
scalability, while other resources our team will be using, such as The Odin Project and Figma,
will support the continued learning, growth, and design collaboration. Structuring our roles is
important so that multiple members can overlap in responsibilities. Our team's goal is to ensure
well-rounded, adaptable development that will set the foundation for a successful Marketplace
web application.
